merge processing rules for the wallet and the verifier (#294)
oauth-wg/oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt: draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt.md

# Verification and Processing {#verification}

## Verification of the SD-JWT {#sd_jwt_verification}

Upon receiving an SD-JWT, a Holder or a Verifier MUST ensure that

 * the Issuer-signed JWT is valid, i.e., it is signed by the Issuer and the signature is valid, and
 * all Disclosures are correct, i.e., their digests are referenced in the Issuer-signed JWT.

The Holder or the Verifier MUST perform the following (or equivalent) steps when receiving
an SD-JWT:

>  1. Separate the SD-JWT into the Issuer-signed JWT, the Disclosures (if any), and the Key Binding JWT (if present). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. Separate the SD-JWT into the Issuer-signed JWT, the Disclosures (if any), and the Key Binding JWT (if present).
```
trailing space

          2. Replace the array element with the claim value from the Disclosure.
          3. Recursively process the value using the steps described in (*) and (**).
    4. If any digests were found more than once in the previous step, the SD-JWT MUST be rejected.
    5. Remove all array elements for which the digest was not found in the previous step.
    6. Remove all `_sd` keys and their contents from the Issuer-signed JWT payload.
    7. Remove the claim `_sd_alg` from the SD-JWT payload.

If any step fails, the SD-JWT is not valid and processing MUST be aborted.

It is up to the Holder how to maintain the mapping between the Disclosures and the plaintext claim values to be able to display them to the End-User when needed.

## Processing by the Holder  {#holder_verification}

If a Key Binding JWT is received by a Holder, the SD-JWT SHOULD be rejected.

For presentation to a Verifier, the Holder MUST perform the following (or equivalent) steps:

 1. Decide which Disclosures to release to the Verifier, obtaining proper End-User consent if necessary.
 2. If Key Binding is required, create a Key Binding JWT.

>  3. Assemble the SD-JWT for Presentation, including the selected Disclosures and, if applicable, the Key Binding JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 3. Assemble the SD-JWT for Presentation, including the Issuer-signed JWT, the selected Disclosures and, if applicable, the Key Binding JWT.
```

# Verification and Processing {#verification}

## Verification of the SD-JWT {#sd_jwt_verification}

> Upon receiving an SD-JWT, the Holders and the Verifiers MUST ensure that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upon receiving an SD-JWT, a Holder or a Verifier MUST ensure that
```

 * the issuer-signed JWT is valid, i.e., it is signed by the Issuer and the signature is valid, and
 * all Disclosures are correct, i.e., their digests are referenced in the issuer-signed JWT.

> The Holder and the Verifier perform the following (or equivalent) steps when receiving

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Holder or the Verifier MUST perform the following (or equivalent) steps when receiving
```

an SD-JWT:

>  1. Separate the SD-JWT into the Issuer-signed JWT and the Disclosures (if any).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. Separate the SD-JWT into the issuer-signed JWT, the Disclosures (if any), and the Key Binding JWT (if present). 
```
I do think the separation step needs to mention all of the parts.

Reviewer: What a Holder does if it received a KB-JWT could also be covered here. Or elsewhere? Prior comment on the topic got marked as outdated for some reason https://github.com/oauth-wg/oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt/pull/294#discussion_r1234263941 but I think I'd lean towards a should reject 

```suggestion
 1. Separate the SD-JWT into the issuer-signed JWT, the Disclosures (if any), and the Key Binding JWT (if present). If a Key Binding JWT is received by a Holder, the SD-JWT SHOULD be rejected.
```

>  1. Separate the SD-JWT into the issuer-signed JWT and the Disclosures (if any).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 1. Separate the SD-JWT into the issuer-signed JWT, the Disclosures (if any), and the Key Binding JWT (if present). If a Key Binding JWT is received by a Holder, it MUST be ignored.
```
Not sure if this is the right rule, but we should probably say *something* on this.

Author: If the Holder received KB JWT, something is pretty wrong so probably such SD-JWT should be rejected?

Reviewer 2: Works for me.

       2. If the digest was found in an object's `_sd` key:
          1. If the respective Disclosure is not a JSON-encoded array of three elements, the SD-JWT MUST be rejected.
          2. Insert, at the level of the `_sd` key, a new claim using the claim name and claim value from the Disclosure.
          3. If the claim name already exists at the same level, the SD-JWT MUST be rejected.
          4. Recursively process the value using the steps described in (*) and (**).
       3. If the digest was found in an array element:
          1. If the respective Disclosure is not a JSON-encoded array of two elements, the SD-JWT MUST be rejected.
          2. Replace the array element with the claim value from the Disclosure.
          3. Recursively process the value using the steps described in (*) and (**).
    4. If any digests were found more than once in the previous step, the SD-JWT MUST be rejected.
    5. Remove all array elements for which the digest was not found in the previous step.
    6. Remove all `_sd` keys and their contents from the issuer-signed JWT payload.

>     7. Remove the claim `_sd_alg` from the SD-JWT payload.

Reviewer 2: These should be applicable only to the Verifier. If we leave these here it sounds as if the Holder is supposed to modify the signed SD-JWT before passing it on to the Verifier.

Reviewer: We definitely don't want to suggest that the Holder is supposed to modify the signed SD-JWT before passing it on to the Verifier. But these steps are conceptually applicable to the Holder too so it can access the "processed SD-JWT payload." 

There are also a few steps intertwined above that have "Insert [... ] a new claim" or "Replace the array element" or "Remove all" that would be awkward to pull out into the Verifier only part.   Can we instead somewhere/somehow say that the steps that suggest changing the payload aren't actually touching the SD-JWT payload itself but rather processing the payload content that will be provided to the application?

Author: If the Wallet/Holder is trying to display the claims received in the SD-JWT to the user, it needs to remove all the redundant claims IMO, so I think we should keep these steps here, but probably add a sentence saying that `the Holder MUST pass the issuer-signed JWT unmodified to the Verifier`?

If any step fails, the SD-JWT is not valid and processing MUST be aborted.

It is up to the Holder how to maintain the mapping between the Disclosures and the plaintext claim values to be able to display them to the End-User when needed.

## Processing by the Holder  {#holder_verification}

> For presentation to a Verifier, the Holder MUST perform the following (or equivalent) steps:

Author: ```suggestion
If a Key Binding JWT is received by a Holder, the SD-JWT SHOULD be rejected.

For presentation to a Verifier, the Holder MUST perform the following (or equivalent) steps:
```

# Verification and Processing {#verification}

## Verification of the SD-JWT {#sd_jwt_verification}

Upon receiving an SD-JWT, a Holder or a Verifier MUST ensure that

 * the Issuer-signed JWT is valid, i.e., it is signed by the Issuer and the signature is valid, and
 * all Disclosures are correct, i.e., their digests are referenced in the Issuer-signed JWT.

The Holder or the Verifier MUST perform the following (or equivalent) steps when receiving
an SD-JWT:

>  1. Separate the SD-JWT into the issuer-signed JWT, the Disclosures (if any), and the Key Binding JWT (if present). 

Author: ```suggestion
 1. Separate the SD-JWT into the Issuer-signed JWT, the Disclosures (if any), and the Key Binding JWT (if present). 
```

# Verification and Processing {#verification}

## Verification of the SD-JWT {#sd_jwt_verification}

> Upon receiving an SD-JWT, the Wallets and the Verifiers MUST ensure that

Reviewer: This draft doesn't use the term Wallet anywhere else. 
```suggestion
Upon receiving an SD-JWT, the Holders and the Verifiers MUST ensure that
```

          3. Recursively process the value using the steps described in (*) and (**).

>     4. If any digests were found more than once in the previous step, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.

Author: this line now applies to the wallets too and thereby addresses issue #280

>     4. If any digests were found more than once in the previous step, the Verifier MUST reject the Presentation.

Reviewer: > not only about presentation

Right! Good point.

    5. Remove all array elements for which the digest was not found in the previous step.
    6. Remove all `_sd` keys and their contents from the issuer-signed JWT payload.
    7. Remove the claim `_sd_alg` from the SD-JWT payload.

If any step fails, the SD-JWT is not valid and processing MUST be aborted.

It is up to the Holder how to maintain the mapping between the Disclosures and the plaintext claim values to be able to display them to the End-User when needed.

## Processing by the Holder  {#holder_verification}

For presentation to a Verifier, the Holder MUST perform the following (or equivalent) steps:

 1. Decide which Disclosures to release to the Verifier, obtaining proper End-User consent if necessary.
 2. If Key Binding is required, create a Key Binding JWT.

>  3. Create the Combined Format for Presentation, including the selected Disclosures and, if applicable, the Key Binding JWT.

Reviewer: Try and align with the coming terminology consolidation.  
```suggestion
 3. Assemble the SD-JWT for Presentation, including the selected Disclosures and, if applicable, the Key Binding JWT.
```

    for the use case at hand. This decision MUST NOT be based on whether
    a Key Binding JWT is provided by the Holder or not. Refer to (#key_binding_security) for
    details.
 2. Separate the Presentation into the SD-JWT, and the Key Binding JWT (if provided).

>  3. Process the SD-JWT as defined in (#sd_jwt_verification).

Reviewer 2: I think a reference to the steps above instead of these two would be sufficient.

Author: sorry, could you please clarify - I think it already references the steps above? instead of which two? I am not sure I understand what change you want...

>  2. Separate the Presentation into the SD-JWT, and the Key Binding JWT (if provided).
>  3. Process the SD-JWT as defined in (#sd_jwt_verification).

Reviewer: I *think* Dr. is suggesting just this: 

```suggestion
 2. Process the SD-JWT as defined in (#sd_jwt_verification).
```
